- [FAINT HEARTBEAT]
- [GURGLING]
[BABY DINOSAUR EXHALES]
- [BABY GURGLING]
- [SCREECHING]
[GURGLING CONTINUES]
[SNUFFLING]
[HEARTBEAT CONTINUES]
[FAINT BELLOWING]
FEMALE: [NARRATING]
Some things start out big...
and some things
start out small, very small.
- [COOING] - But sometimes
the smallest thing...
can make the biggest changes of all.
[LOW BELLOWING, DISTANT]
[SNORTING]
[GRUNTS]
[SQUAWKING]
[COOS]
[CHIRPING]
[SNIFFING]
- [ROARS]
- [SHRIEKS]
[DINOSAURS VOCALIZING]
[SHRIEKS]
[BIRDS CHIRPING, SQUAWKING]
[GRUNTING]
[CHIRPING]
[CONTINUES CHIRPING]
[CHIRPS]
[DINOSAUR EXHALES]
[DINOSAUR SNUFFLING]
[LOW GROWLING]
[SHRIEKING]
- [SHRIEKING CONTINUES]
- [LOWS]
[ROARING]
[CRYING OUT]
[GROWLING]
[TRUMPETING]
- [GRUNTING]
- [ROARING]
[GROWLING]
[PANTING]
- [SHRIEKS]
- [CARNOTAUR GRUNTING]
[BELLOWS]
[CHITTERING]
[CONTINUES CHITTERING]
[GRUNTS]
[TRILLS, SHRIEKS]
[BOTH GROWLING, SNORTING]
[DINOSAUR BARKS]
[BARKS]
♪♪ [MAN VOCALIZING]
♪♪ [MEN VOCALIZING]
[BOTH SNORTING, GROWLING]
[SNIFFING]
[GROWLING RESUMES]
[BOTH GROWLING]
[SQUAWKS]
- [CHOIR VOCALIZING]
- [SQUAWKS]
♪♪ [VOCALIZING CONTINUES]
[CAWING]
[CHIRPING]
[CHIRPING CONTINUES]
[SQUAWKING]
[CHITTERING]
[THUNDERCLAP]
[WHISPERING INDISTINCT]
- Yar, what is it?
- I don't know. [GRUNTS]
Plio, get back here!
We don't know what it is!
YOUNG LEMUR:
Plio, be careful.
[BOTH EXHALING SLOWLY]
[SNIFFING]
[GASPS]
[THUNDERCLAP]
[SNUFFLING]
Dad, get over here.
- Zini, it's not safe. - Oh, I always
have to go when stuff's happening.
[GRUNTS]
Well, what is it?
- It was an egg. Look.
- [GASPS]
- What? - It's a cold-blooded
monster from across the sea.
- Vicious, flesh-eating.
- Blech.
- Eew.
- Looks like a baby to me.
Babies grow up. You keep that thing,
one clay, we'll turn our backs-
It'll be picking us
out of its teeth.
- Things like that eat things like
us as snacks! - [ALL GASPING]
- [YELPING]
- So, what do we do?
Get rid of it!
[GRUNTS]
What has gotten into you?
Plio, that thing is dangerous!
[SIGHS]
I'm sorry, little one.
- Okay, get rid of it.
- [GASPS]
- [HUFFS]
- All right. I will.
[SCATTERED CHITTERING]
[MUTTERING, INDISTINCT]
[CONTINUES MUTTERING]
You'd better hurry up, Dad.
It looks hungry.
[HUFFS]
[GURGLING]
[STAMMERING]
[YAWNS]
[GURGLING]
[GROANS]
[DINOSAUR URINATES,
CONTINUES GURGLING]
[GRUNTS]
Here.
- [GRUNTS]
- It's okay.
- We'll teach him to hate meat.
- Hmph.
- [ALL CHITTERING]
- Watch his head.
L-I mean, watch it,
he could bite.
This monster's
got no teeth.
What's he gonna do?
Gum us to death?
PLIO: Zini, come on.
Look at that sweet little face.
Does that look
like a monster to you?
[ALL SCREAMING]
- [ROARING]
- [ALL SCREECHING]
[TRUMPETING]
- [GASPING]
- [SCREECHING CONTINUES]
[SCREAMING]
[SNORTING]
[BOTH GRUNT]
- [WHIMPERING]
- [GROWLING]
- [CONTINUE WHIMPERING]
- [SNARLING]
- [GASPING]
- Let me out! Let me out!
- [SPITS]
- [BOTH SCREECH]
[COUGHS]
Hairball. [SPITS]
- That was great! Get him!
- [LAUGHING]
Oh, no! Attacking lemurs!
Suri, please!
I can't take it! There are too many of you!
Come on! Pick on someone your own size!
- Help! [CONTINUES, INDISTINCT]
- [ALL GIGGLING]
[CHUCKLING]
Oh, no-
[GROANS]
[GASPS]
Aladar, you're not dead.
- No! [LAUGHS]
- [ALL SCREAM]
All right, guys, break it up.
Remember the courtship?
- You gonna miss seeing all that smooching.
- [GROANING] Oh, Mom.
- That's okay, Plio. We can smooch
right here. - [ALL SCREECHING]
- It's a shame you don't like kids.
- Nasty little vermin.
Ha-ha. Go find Zini.
He's rehearsing pickup lines. Let's
hope he's found some new material.
Hey, sweetie, if you'll be my bride,
I'll groom ya.
That is good.
Oh, that's good.
Girls, I'm known
as the “professor of love”...
and school's in session.
[WHEEZING LAUGH]
- Yeah, I still got it. [EXHALES]
- I hope it's not contagious.
- I'm a raging epidemic of romance.
- Come on, hot stuff.
Let's get goin'. You don't
wanna miss Yar's annual pep talk.
ZINI: Oh, goody. I can't wait to hear
the mating advice of an old monkey.
ALADAR: Hey-Hey-Hey, I heard that in his
clay, that old monkey was quite a swinger.
- ZINI: You talkin' about Yar?
- Yeah, to hear him tell it...
he put the “prime” in “primate.”
ZINI: Really?
Okay, boys, gather 'round.
Listen and learn from the master.
Now, girls, don't jump into the trees after
the first boy with a cute back flip.
It's more fun
if you keep them guessing.
And if a cute back flip
doesn't work, guess.
You're never going to forget this
day, so make it one to remember.
But if you mess up, don't worry.
They'll never remember.
Come on, guys!
We don't wanna let 'em down!
- Go on, now. Chest up! Chin up!
- LEMUR: Whoo!
[ALADAR GRUNTS]
- Make 'em look good, son.
- Come on, Yar.
- My charm and your brains? No problem.
- [LAUGHS]
[BELLOWING]
Ha-ha! [BELLOWS]
- Hey, girls, look what just pulled into town.
- LEMUR: Hey, ladies!
- Your buffet table of love.
- [ALL GIGGLING]
- Right here! Right here!
- Hey, beautiful!
Hey, free samples!
Get me while I'm hot!
Whoa!
[LAUGHS SHEEPISHLY]
Zini. [GIGGLES]
[CHATTERING]
- Whoo! Wah-hoo!
- LEMUR: Whoo!
- [SCATTERED WHOOPING]
- [CHITTERING]
- Yah-hoo!
- [BELLOWS]
- [CHITTERING CONTINUES]
[YELLING]
- [CRIES OUT, MUTTERS]
- [GIGGLES]
[ALL SCREECHING]
- [GRUNTING]
- ALADAR: You're missin' all the action, pal. Come on.
ZINI: Hey, haven't you heard?
I am the action!
[LAUGHS, WHOOPS, SCREECHES]
[GIGGLING]
♪♪ [CHOIR VOCALIZING]
[SQUEAKS]
- [ALL SCREECHING]
- P, P [CONTINUES]
[YELPING]
[FADES]
[LEMURS CHITTERING]
[CHITTERING CONTINUES]
[SIGHS]
Ah, don't worry, Zini.
You always have next year.
Hey, I'm lucky to be rid of them.
With the ladies...
- before you know it, they all wanna
move to a bigger tree. - Hmm.
Oh, well. Poor Zini.
The clan still has one bachelor.
No, we have two.
Well, it's never
really been his best event.
- [CHUCKLES] He's got a tougher
hide than mine. - Oh, Aladar...
if only there was someone
on the island for you.
Well, you know, who looks like you,
but prettier.
Come on, Plio.
What more could I want?
[SCATTERED CHITTERING]
Whoa!
- What are they?
- I don't know.
[HISSING]
[HISSING CONTINUES]
[BIRDS SQUAWKING]
[SNIFFING]
Dad?
[SNIFFS]
Somethings wrong.
Aladar, where's Suri?
- She's up in the tree.
- [LOW RUMBLING]
[ALL GASP]
[GRUNTING]
Come on! Go! Go!
Come on!
- SURI: Mom!
- Suri!
- Mom! Mom!
- Mom!
- ALADAR: Suri, where are you?
Run, Aladar!
Run! Run!
- [LEMURS SCREAMING]
- [ALADAR GASPING]
- [YAR GRUNTS]
- ALADAR: Yar, come on!
- PLIO: Zini, jump! Jump!
- ALADAR: Zini, jump!
- [ZINI PANTS, GRUNTS]
- PLIO: Hold on!
[YELLS, GASPS]
[GASPING, GRUNTING]
[GRUNTS]
[GASPS]
[YELLS]
[GASPING]
[COUGHING]
Plio! Yar! Where are you?
[COUGHS]
PLIO:
Aladar, over here!
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
[YAR COUGHING]
♪♪ [WOMAN VOCALIZING]
[SNORTS]
♪♪ [CONTINUES]
[CHITTERING]
[BELLOWS]
[PANTING]
[WHISPERING]
I feel bad. I feel bad.
Oh, Suri.
Easy, easy.
[SURI CRIES]
They're all gone.
- Shh, shh. I'm here.
- [WHIMPERING]
Come on.
We can't stay here.
[SCATTERED CAWING]
[WIND WHISTLING]
[CRYING]
Now, now, Suri.
There's nothing to be afraid of.
- Look!
- VVhoa!
Did you see that?... - YAR: What?
- ZINI: I did.
- SURI: Me too! - PLIO: Where did it go?
- I don't know. Let's go see.
- Leave it alone. Hey!
- [SLAP] - PLIO: Shh, Dad.
- YAR: It's scaring Suri.
- SURI: No, it's not.
ALADAR:
Everyone just be quiet.
[COOING, DISTANT]
[CHITTERING]
[SQUAWKS, CHITTERS]
[SNORTING]
[BOTH GROWLING]
[SQUAWKING]
[VOCALIZING]
[RAPTORS SQUAWKING, TRILLING]
- [GASPS]
- [TRILLING]
- [ROARS] - [GASPS]
- [ALL SCREAM]
[RAPTORS GROWLING, SCREECHING]
[ALADAR GRUNTING, GASPING]
[RAPTORS VOCALIZING]
- [LEMURS GASPING]
- [ALADAR GRUNTING]
[ALADAR GRUNTS, CRIES OUT]
- YAR: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
- PLIO: Yar, grab on!
- YAR: I can't reach!
- [ALADAR PANTING]
[YAR CRIES OUT]
[TRILLING]
[RAPTOR SCREECHES]
- PLIO: Aladar, they're stopping!
- [ALADAR GASPING]
- [BELLOWING, ECHOING]
- Huh?
[GROWLING]
Stay out of my way!
[LEMURS SCREECHING]
You heard Kron.
Move it!
[GASPING]
[SCATTERED BELLOWING, CALLING]
[SQUAWKING]
[LOWING]
- [BOTH GRUNT]
- Watch it.
[FEROCIOUS BELLOWING]
- [ALADAR CRIES OUT]
- [BELLOWING CONTINUES]
- [CHITTERING]
- YAR: Zini, get your head down.
[DINOSAURS TRILLING]
[FOOTSTEPS, BELLOWING]
[BELLOWING]
Walkin' backwards, huh? Well, let me
know if that gets you there any faster.
Keep those little legs movin',
Url, or you'll get left behind.
[BELLOWING]
Look at all the Aladars.
- If you're even thinking of joining
them... [RAPTORS GROWLING]
- [ZINI GASPS] - [CHITTERING]
- Hang on! Hang on!
[TRILLING]
[ROARS]
[SCATTERED BELLOWING, CALLING]
[PANTING]
- [MALE DINOSAUR] Kron...
- [SNORTS]
There is a more protected spot
further down the-
- We'll rest here for the night.
Go ahead, Bruton. - [SNORTING]
[BELLOWING]
Oh, Eema, I wish we were
at your nesting grounds now.
All this pushing
and shoving about...
just for a place to sleep.
I'm not used
to this kind of behaviour.
- Baylene, you got big feet. Just
give 'em a kick. Git! - [BRAYING]
Ooh, I couldn't possibly.
[STAMMERING]
Shoo, shoo.
Will you come on, Baylene? You wanna
get to the nesting grounds alive?
- Show some backbone.
- Hey, there.
- [SCREAMS]
- Oh, sorry about that.
Uh, it's just,
we overheard you talking, and, um-
[SNUFFLING, PANTING]
Well, my word.
Look at Url.
- [CONTINUES PANTING] - He doesn't
normally warm up to strangers so fast.
[BAYLENE SNIFFS, SNORTS]
- What an unfortunate blemish.
- Good mud bath'd clear those up.
- Excuse me?
- [SHRIEKS]
Urn, he's my grandfather-
[CHUCKLES] couple of times removed.
Try a couple of species removed.
Uh, my name's Aladar. This is my family.
We're all that's left.
Oh, my dear.
I'm so sorry.
Baylene's the last of her kind. Finding
stragglers like her all along the way.
I heard you say something
about nesting grounds?
It is the most beautiful place
there is, child.
It's where the herd goes
to have their babies.
Will we find anybody
that looks like us there?
Oh, the last few days,
I've seen 'em all shapes and sizes.
Who knows
what we'll find.
The hard job now
is just getting there.
- And we're being driven unmercifully.
- By who?
Kron, the herd's head honcho.
We can hardly keep up.
An older woman like myself-
it's-Well,
it's positively indecent.
- Then tell him. What's the
worst he can do? - [GROWLING]
Oh!
- [SNARLING]
- Hey!
What's his problem?
- That's him, honey. Kron.
- Huh.
- Uh, excuse me! Kron, you got a second?
- [SNORTS]
- Get lost, kid.
- Hmm. Relax, Bruton.
[SNORTS]
- Who are you?
- Uh, Aladar.
Why aren't you uphill
with the-
uh, young bloods?
- [SNORTS] - Well, I was back
here talking to these guys.
- [EEMA GASPS]
- I guess they... They're having a hard time keeping up.
- So, you know, maybe you could
slow it down a bit? - [CHUCKLES]
So, you know, maybe you
could slow it down a bit?
Better let me do the thinking
from now on, Aladar.
- Hey, they need help back here.
- Hmm.
Watch yourself, boy.
[SNAFLS]
Don't worry. That's how my brother
treats newcomers...
no matter how charming
they are.
You sure know how to catch
a girl's eye, there, stud.
I wouldn't be catchin' nobody's eye
if I was you, especially Neera's.
You just keep your head down,
and you mind what Kron tells you.
Since when do we take orders
from the likes of him?
[CHUCKLES] Kron has swatted flies
bigger than you, pops.
I could hold that monster's brain
in the palm of my-
No, Yar, she's right. Better to keep
our heads down with this bunch...
- than get 'em bitten off by those things.
- [CHITTERING]
Well, you consider yourself lucky
that's all that's following us.
[ALL SNARLING, CHITTERING]
[BELLOWS]
[VOCALIZES]
- [SNORING]
- Hey, wake up.
- Enough with the beauty sleep.
You're ravishing already. - [GROANS]
Hey! Hello!
Anybody in there?
- [GASPING] Zini, what are you doing?
- [CRIES OUT]
I believe you left a wake-up call
for the dawn of time.
- Come on! Move it!
- What's the hurry?
ZINI: Somethings up. The herd's
gathering without us. Let's check it out.
Rise and shine!
Kron says everybody goes.
- [SCATTERED GROANING]
- Come on. Get up. On your feet.
Huh. The charm
never stops around here.
[GROWLS]
You say something?
Uh, no-no, sir.
Unless you got a death wish...
you and that little parasite
better get moving! [SNARLS]
Sheesh, is that guy ugly or what?
Hey, hey, hey,
there's your girlfriend.
[ZINI MEOWS]
- What are you talkin' about?
- You know what I'm talkin' about: Neera.
Scab/ skin. Yellow eyes. Big ankles.
Yeah, I made a real impression
on her. [SNORTS]
What you need is a little help
from the love monkey.
- “The love monkey”?
- Ow, baby! [BARKING]
Ow! [CHITTERING, MEOWING]
- [CHUCKLES]
- That, children...
is what's known as a "jerkasaurus".
- [COOING]
- And with that, the ice is broken.
- [BELLOWING]
[CONTINUES BELLOWING]
We've got a lot of first-timers
here. Make sure they get it.
We stop for nothing
and no one.
BRUTON: If this is
your first crossing, listen up.
- [CHITTERING] - There is no water
till we reach the other side.
And you'd better keep up, 'cause if a predator
catches you... you're on your own. Move out!
[BRUTON BELLOWING]
[BARKS]
- [SNORTS]
- BAYLENE: Oh, my goodness.
- It looks like a very long walk.
- EEMA: And hot.
If you smell somethin' sizzlin',
it could be me.
[SCATTERED VOCALIZING, SNORTING]
♪♪ [VOCALIZING]
[PANTING]
[GASPS]
♪♪ [VOCALIZING CONTINUES]
[GRUNTS]
We're moving too slow.
I'll pick up the pace.
[BELLOWS]
[EEMA PANTING]
Hey, old girl,
you're wandering off a bit.
[EXHALES SLOWLY]
That's all I need: a monkey on my back.
[BOTH PANTING]
[TRILLING]
[DISTANT BELLOWING]
♪♪ [VOCALIZING CONTINUES]
- [GROANS]
- ALADAR: on your feet, Eema.
We can't let those things
eat you.
They're out there
waiting.
[VOCALIZES]
- [CHIRPS]
- [BOTH SHRIEK]
[CRIES OUT]
[GROWLING, LOW]
- [BELLOWS]
- [SNORTS]
[ALL VOCALIZING]
- The lake!
- YAR: We made it?
EEMA: It's just over that-
that hill, baby.
Oh, thank goodness.
Come on, Eema.
Water. Remember water?
Oh, it's time
to refresh my memory.
[VOCALIZING]
[SNORTS]
EEMA: I'm just gonna walk
right into that lake...
- [PANTING]
- ...until the water's up to my eyeballs...
And soak it all in.
[SIGHS]
Maybe the rains
collected somewhere else.
What do you want us to do?
Take a scout
and check the entire perimeter.
[BRUTON SNORTS]
- [WHIMPERING, CRYING OUT]
- Enough! You have to be strong now.
The nesting grounds are only
a few days away. Keep moving!
- [SCATTERED LOWING] - Kron, we've
never gone this long without water.
If we keep going like this,
we'll lose half the herd.
Then we save the half
that deserves to live. [GROWLS]
[BELLOWS]
[CONTINUES BELLOWING]
What? They're moving already?
Oh-ho, we'll never keep up.
There was water here,
always water here before.
[GASPING]
We always had water, always.
- And-And plenty of mud. [CRIES]
- Oh, Eema, please.
The herd won't wait.
We must carry on.
- [GASPING]
- You gotta get up.
- There was water everywhere.
- There is no water, clear.
[GRUNTING]
- Baylene, don't move.
- What is it?
What's wrong?
- Do you hear that?
- I sure do. Lift your foot, Baylene.
[GRUNTING]
[GRUNTING] Ooh!
- [COUGHING]
- Now press down.
[GRUNTING]
[WHOOPING]
I always did like big girls!
- Water!
- Oh, my goodness!
[BELLOWS]
- Water! Come on!
- He found water.
That's it, Eema.
Come drink.
[COOING]
[SNORTING]
[KRON SNARLING]
Kron, look.
All we had to do is dig, and-
Good. Now, get out of the way.
[ROARING]
- [SNORTING]
- [ALL VOCALIZING]
Wait! Wait!
There's enough for everyone!
Ah!
[SNAFLS]
- Oh.
- Eema!
That's it. Keep pushing and shoving.
That's very helpful.
[DINOSAURS SNARLING]
Bruton, we've been walking
in circles. There's no water here.
- I think we should get back.
- Shh. Keep it down.
[HISSES]
[SNIFFING]
[GROWLING]
- Let's get out of here.
- [GASPS]
[CARNOTAUR ROARS]
[ROARS]
[CARNOTAUR ROARING]
SURI:
Now, you come out on three.
One, two, three!
Come on. Come on out.
No one's gonna hurt you.
Hey, hey.
What's going on?
The little Aladars haven't
had anything to drink.
I think they're scared of me.
Who wouldn't be?
You are pretty scary.
- [GROWLS]
- [CHUCKLES] Come on over, guys.
[GRUNTING]
- Take it easy. Don't worry. She's just
a hairball. - And proud of it.
Come on. He's gonna
find you some water.
Here. Now, you just
take a foot and press.
- [BOTH SNARLING]
- Whoa.
Hey, hey, hey.
Come on. Come on. Knock it off.
Let's work together here, huh?
A little teamwork. Ready?
One, two, three. Press!
Good job, Suri.
- Where are your parents, anyway?
- A lot of us are on our own now.
You like kids, I see.
- Well, the skinny ones can be
a little chewy. - [CHUCKLES]
I'm Aladar... the "jerkasaurus."
Ohh. Sorry about that.
[LAUGHS]
You're probably right.
- [WHISPERS] Dad, wake up.
- [SNORTS] Huh?
Why did you
help that old one?
What else could we do?
Leave her behind?
Oh. You mean, you actually-
Well, that happens all the time.
- You don't survive if you're not-
- Strong enough.
Well... yeah.
Is that you talking,
or your brother?
[SIGHS]
Everything's so different.
I-I don't know
what to think any more.
Look, Neera-
we watch out for each other...
we all stand a chance of getting
to your nesting grounds.
- You sound so sure.
- I'm not...
but it's all I know.
So, um-Oh, water.
I'll, uh,
get you some water.
- [CHUCKLES] Can I try it?
- Sure. Just press.
- [GASPS] Hmm.
- [CHUCKLES] Oops.
- [CHUCKLES] Sorry.
- No. You-You first.
One down... and...
well, one down.
BRUTON: Kron!
- Carnotaurs!
- What? They never come this far north.
The fireball must've driven them out.
[GRUNTS]
[CARNOTAURS HOWLING]
You led them right to us! Maybe
you can feed them with your hide!
Move the herd out,
double-time!
[BELLOWS]
[CHATTERING]
- What's happening?
- My brother's moving the herd.
Kron, what's going on?
Carnotaurs. If we don't keep moving,
they'll catch up to us.
But the others in the back-
They'll never make it.
They'll slow down the predators.
You can't sacrifice them
like this!
- Hold it! That could be you back there!
Or you! - [SNARLS]
If you ever interfere again...
I'll kill you.
[SNAFLS]
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
Stay away from him!
[SNAFLS]
Ooh. [GROWLS]
Aladar, no.
You just-just go. I'll be okay.
[SIGHS]
Let's go! Let's go!
Carnotaurs!
- Came-what?
- EEMA: Carnotaur.
A mouthful of teeth
with a bad attitude. Let's go.
Come on, you guys! Get on! Get on!
We're gonna get left behind.
[GRUNTS]
Let's go! Hurry up!
We're losing them!
Aladar, slow down.
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
[SIGHS]
[BAYLENE AND EEMA
BREATHING HEAVILY]
[FOOTSTEPS]
[GROWLS]
[THUNDER RUMBLES]
[CONTINUES GROWLING]
BAYLENE:
Oh, joy. Blisters.
EEMA: I've got blisters
on my blisters.
- You don't wanna know where I got blisters.
- [DINOSAUR BELLOWS]
- What was that?
- It came from up ahead.
- Okay, what's the worst thing it could be?
- A carnotaur.
- What's the second worst thing it could be?
- Two carnotaurs! Oh!
- That's it. I'm gone.
- BAYLENE: Oh, my goodness!
Everybody, we don't know for sure.
It could be the herd.
- Let's check it out.
- Oh, my goodness. Goodness gracious.
[DINOSAUR GROWLING]
[GRUNTS]
[GASPS]
Oh, it's Bruton.
It appears we weren't
the only ones left behind.
[GROANS]
[EXHALES DEEPLY]
- What happened?
- Carnotaurs. We should keep moving.
- We can't just leave him here.
- We can if we move fast enough.
Hey, you don't look so good.
Let me help you.
Save your pity. I just need some rest.
Now, get away from me.
- Suit yourself.
- [THUNDERCLAP]
[OBJECT DROPS]
[PANTING]
[SNORTS]
If you change your mind,
we'll be in those caves.
Mm.
It's dark, but
at least it's dry.
- I like dry. It's the dark part I'm having trouble with.
- [SURI PANTING]
[GASPS] Ouch!
Ooh. Sorry, Url.
Sturdy little thing,
ain't he?
- [CHUCKLES]
- Ahem. We appear to have a visitor.
[THUNDERCLAP]
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
[GROANS]
[GASPING]
You coming in or what?
What is it with you?
At least I know enough
to get in out of the rain.
Now, come on.
On your feet.
[GRUNTS]
[GROWLS]
- Uh, you can lie down with us.
It's warmer. - [GRUNTS]
May I remind you
that he's one of them?
Well, looks like
he's one of us now.
[GRUNTS]
[THUNDER CONTINUES]
Ahh. Who booked
this trip, anyway?
Ah, you'll be at the nesting grounds
soon enough.
Well, when I get there, I'm gonna
give Kron a piece of my mind.
- You tell him, Eema.
- [LEMURS GIGGLING]
[YAWNS]
YAR: If I could sleep that deep,
I'd be in paradise.
EEMA: If you could sleep
that deep, honey, you'd be dead.
- [LAUGHTER]
- [GRUNTS]
This plant grew
on our island.
It will make you feel better.
[GRUNTS]
Ahh.
Why is he doing this?
Pushing them on with false hope?
It's hope that's
gotten us this far.
But why doesn't he let them
accept their fate?
I've accepted mine.
- And what is your fate?
- To die here.
It's the way things are.
Only if you give up, Bruton.
It's your choice, not your fate.
Well, the plant will help.
[THUNDERCLAP]
[BOTH GROWL]
[FOOTSTEPS]
- [GASPS]
- BRUTON: Shh.
Carnotaurs.
[BOTH GROWL]
- What do we do?
- Wake the others.
[HISSES]
[BLEATS]
[GROWLING]
[SNIFFING]
Oh.
- Ooh.
- [GASPS]
[SNAFLS]
[SNIFFS]
- [PLIO WHIMPERS]
- [GROWLS]
- [THUNDERCLAP]
- [HISSES]
- [GRUNTS] Go! Go!
- [GROWLING]
Hurry!
Move it, Eema!
[YELLS] Oh!
- PLIO: Aladar!
- [CHILDREN SCREAMING]
PLIO: Aladar! Oh, no!
[SNARLING]
- [BREATHING HEAVILY] - I'll hold them off!
You help the others!
[ROARS]
[BRUTON BELLOWS]
[BOTH ROARING]
[SCREECHING]
[GRUNTS]
Bruton! [GRUNTS]
[GRUNTING]
[GROANS]
Bruton! No!
[GRUNTS]
[ALADAR COUGHING]
Bruton!
[GRUNTS]
You did what you could.
[CARNOTAUR HISSES]
[GROWLS]
[CARNOTAUR GROWLING]
[SNORTS]
[ROARS]
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
[BLEATING]
[SNORTS]
[COOS]
[BLEATING]
[GRUNTS]
[BLEATS]
It's okay, little ones.
We're going to make it.
[CHITTERING]
[SQUEALS]
[SIGHS]
ZINI: Okay, okay. Let's
do it again. Let's do it again.
- Uh, I spy with my little eye-
- A rock.
You got it again!
Ooh! You are good!
Well, I'll tell you what I spy.
A dead end.
- What do we do now?
- I guess we just go back.
[ZINI SNIFFS]
Hold on a moment.
- Zini, what is it?
- [SNIFFS]
- Do you smell that?
- [SNIFFS] Yeah.
[SNIFFING]
[GRUNTING]
- [EEMA GASPS] Get a load of that.
- BAYLENE: Good show.
Everybody stand back.
We're outta here!
[GRUNTING]
[BOTH CRY OUT]
Aladar, look out!
No! [GRUNTING]
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
[ROARING]
[GRUNTS, EXHALES DEEPLY]
Aladar, we'll go back.
Back to what? It's gone.
We're not meant to survive.
Oh, yes, we were.
We're here, aren't we?
And how dare you waste that
good fortune by simply giving up?
Shame on you.
Shame on you! Shame on you!
The worst of it is...
you allowed an old fool like me
to believe I was needed-
that I still had a purpose-
and do you know what?
You were right.
And I'm going to go on believing it.
And I, for one,
am not willing to die here.
[GROWLING]
[ROARS]
[BLEATING]
[BELLOWS]
[GROWLS]
Oh, dear.
♪♪ [CHOIR VOCALIZING]
The nesting grounds.
It's-It's untouched.
[BIRDS CALLING]
Our new home.
- And it comes with a pool!
- [GIGGLES]
- ♪ Yodelay-yodelay-yodelayheehoo ♪
- [GIGGLING]
- ♪♪ [VOCALIZING CONTINUES]
- [LAUGHING]
Cannonball!
Whoo-hoo-ha-ha!
Ha. Amateur.
Look out below!
[CHITTERING]
[ALL WHOOPING]
[PANTING]
- [LAUGHTER] - Not bad. But I don't get it.
Where's the herd?
- Not to mention Neera.
- [CHUCKLES]
[CHUCKLES]
They'll get here-
Mm. Soon enough.
Oh, no.
Eema?
- I spoke too soon.
- What is it?
That is the way
we used to get in here.
They'll never make it over that.
Aladar, wait! Wait!
Kron'll eat you alive.
Let him try.
EEMA: Mm. I hope Kron's
in a listening mood.
[ALL VOCALIZING]
Stay here.
[BLEATS]
We'll find a way
around it.
In the morning,
we'll climb it.
[GRUNTING]
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
[SNIFFS]
- [GASPS]
- [FOOTSTEPS]
[GRUNTS]
[GROWLS]
[GROWLS, HISSES]
[ROARS]
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
[GROWLING]
KRON:
We have to keep trying.
Our survival, our future,
is over these rocks.
Now, let's go home!
[CHATTERING]
You'll make it,
won't you, boys?
- No.
- Watch them. They're tough!
If they can do it,
so can you!
[CHATTERING]
- ALADAR: Kron!
- [GASPS]
Get the herd out of here!
A carnotaur is coming!
[ALL BELLOWING]
- Keep moving!
- ALADAR: Stop!
- I've been to the valley! There's a
safer way! - [BELLOWING CONTINUES]
- Go on! Show 'em!
- Kron, listen to him.
- Look, we gotta go now!
- Go where, straight to the carnotaurs?
If we hurry, we can get around them!
You can't get over those rocks!
There's a sheer drop
on the other side!
You're gonna kill the herd! I know a way
to the valley, and everybody can make it!
- Now, follow me!
- [GROWLS]
- Kron!
- [GRUNTS]
They're staying with me!
All right. Let's go!
[GROWLING]
[SNARLING]
- [KRON GRUNTS]
- [ROARS]
[GROWLS]
[YOUNGSTERS CHITTERING]
[ROARS]
[BREATHES DEEPLY]
[GROWLING, LOW]
Neera! [ECHOING]
[DINOSAUR TRILLING]
[GRUNTS]
[CARNOTAUR HOWLING]
[FOOTSTEPS]
[GROWLS]
[SNIFFS, HISSES]
[CARNOTAUR GROWLS]
He's led that monster
right to us! This way!
- [ALL GRUNTING, VOCALIZING]
- No! Don't move!
If we scatter, he'll pick us off!
Stand together!
[ROARING]
[ALL VOCALIZING]
- [GROWLING]
- [BELLOWING]
[GROWLS]
[BELLOWING]
[BELLOWING CONTINUES]
- [GROWLS]
- [KRON BREATHING HEAVILY]
[SNORTS]
[EXHALES DEEPLY, GROWLS]
Kron!
[GROWLING]
[GROWLING CONTINUES]
- ♪♪ [VOCALIZING]
- No. No.
- [CARNOTAUR SNARLING]
- [SNORTS]
[GROWLS]
[ROARS]
[GASPING]
[GROWLING]
[ROARS]
[GASPS]
- [CARNOTAUR GROWLING]
- [GROWLS]
[GROWLING]
[SCREECHES]
[GRUNTING]
NEERA: Kron.
[INSECTS BUZZING, BIRDS CHIRPING]
♪♪ [CHOIR VOCALIZING]
[GRUNTING]
[SQUAWKING]
Welcome home.
[BELLOWS]
[CHATTERING]
[ALL BELLOWING]
EEMA: Move over. Bringing in
babies is what I do best.
I'd say it's been a few years
since you've hatched an egg.
- [BOTH LAUGHING] - You're right,
so let me practise on your head.
Look! Somebody wants to meet you.
Ohh! Aren't you the sweetest
little small fry I ever did see?
Hey, little guy.
He looks just like me.
[CHUCKLES] Meet your dad.
He's not as crazy as he looks.
- [COOING]
- EEMA: Ohh. Oh, happy day.
- [SNEEZES]
- BAYLENE: Well done, little one.
Come here, you little rascal.
Let me get a good look at you.
[BABY URINATING]
Yep. You're your father's son,
all right.
- [CHILDREN GIGGLE]
- ZINI: Hey! Look what I found! New neighbors!
Any of you ladies up for a game
of“Monkey In the Middle”?
- [LADIES GIGGLING]
- Easy, now! Easy! Hey! [LAUGHING]
- [ALL LAUGHING]
- [BELLOWS]
[BELLOWS]
[ALL YIPPING, HOWLING]
[ALL BELLOWING]
[BELLOWING, HOWLING CONTINUE]
[BIRDS CALLING]
PLIO: [NARRATING] None of us really know
what changes, big or small, lie ahead.
One thing is certain-
Our journeys not over.
We can only hope
that in some small way...
our time here
will be remembered.
♪♪ [CHOIR VOCALIZING]